so I just got a question from Jay costly
and his youtube channel is still there
Jay costly but you also have the cosplay
channel which is called what cosplay
with a conscience I forget cruelty free
cosplay cruelty free that's it
clearly free cause fine clothes for the
conscience also good type okay he was
just asking me about the role of dignity
I guess in my own philosophy and in my
own preaching within veganism now what
what strikes me as interesting is you
were just asking me this long question
which is cool I'm not complaining a
thing it's long but you asked me this
question the first 90% you were talking
about the difficulty of expressing to
other people this concept of dignity as
it applies to animals as applies to you
know domesticated animals animals in
zoos pets but I guess also farm animals
right especially though because you've
been talking to people who don't have
your background working with animals
hands-on so Jay I've done a bunch of
videos with them and they're great the
zoo the last video we did talking about
zoos was really great I when I listen to
it back it was better than I remembered
it paying but you know well Jay has
worked in zoos and he has a lot of
hands-on experience with animals in a
lot of strange situations including in
zoos the inevitability of animals being
executed and put down and executing
animals being cared for when they're
sick and all the strange and comfortable
gray areas you get into and caring for
animals in in captivity but you switched
your direction your question in the end
and you kind of start asking about
dignity for humans and is so you ask
kind of in the context of human beings
is the problem that the concept of
dignity is too abstract but I think
before that what you were struggling
with was how do you communicate to
people who don't have the hands-on
experience with animals what what
dignity means and these things yeah so
you want to talk about both or would you
want to clip okay cool so I'm not gonna
draw with it so for animals this is my
snappy but sincere answer you know if
you take an elephant and you cut its
tusks off have you deprived it of its
dignity if you take an elephant and you
cut its tail off
have you deprived it of its dignity if
you take an elephant and he cut its
trunk off you thought cut its nose off
have you the privates dignity all these
things really happen there's not
hypothetical example sit in places like
Laos and Cambodia these things really
happen to happen for various reasons and
it's a real question whether or not you
just kill this animal or what after
various stages of this kind of injury or
indignity or aren't you
I ask a fundamentally different question
I ask when you've cut an animal off from
the wilderness have you deprived of its
dignity and what I really insist on is
that I'm not talking about an idealized
wilderness I'm just talking about the
actual wilderness which includes you
know being torn apart by wolves and
dying of dysentery and all that stuff
I'm not talking about I'm not talking
about an idealized I'm not only but in
Arcadia I'm not talking about a guard
obediently eaten I'm talking about the
brutal grim reality of being in the
wilderness or as I talked about in an
earlier video today even animals living
feral were you talking about you know
rabbits that are feral living in a city
we just saw that you're in Victoria you
know now I can get into more detail I
don't mean right now I'm talking to the
converted but you were talking with a
difficulty when you deal with people who
haven't who haven't thought this through
and don't this kind of experience for me
you know little tactile examples like
when I question for people you know when
you pet your dog on the head do you
think that in the wild dogs pet one
another on the head and they have to
stop like no so this gesture petting it
you know what you've never seen a dog
take its paw and pet another dog on that
you never seen a wolf do that in the
wild right that's not so meaningful
now why do I use that kind of example
it's not just to make someone feel like
a jerk it's because for me part of
what's being cut off here before we get
to cutting off the tail or cutting off
the trunk or cutting off the cutting off
one leg or what have you
what you're cutting this animal off from
is it's socialization within its own
species and
a weird sense that's even true of
solitary predators right obviously
cutting it off from reproducing with its
own species cutting it off from
competing with its own species
socializing this mosby but even some of
that a little example like that I think
it really does emblem at eyes are
tokenized what's really a deeper problem
here of what it is I mean bye-bye
dignity because you know I talk about a
life of dignity I talk about death
dating like for this dog or for this
wolf whatever dignity it's gonna seek
out is gonna be competing in its own
kind right it's not a dignity I can
confer by patting it on the head and
saying good dog and the reason why this
is a challenge you have to talk about
with people is that their intention is
there
their mentality is 180 degrees the
opposite they think the dignity of
animals is something that human beings
provide to animals the same way we
provide them with a bowl of food or a
roof over their head or shelter or
what-have-you in the same way a human
being competitive dog in the head it's a
good dog or make the dog happy or play
with the dog give it a treat and this is
this is exactly what they think of as
dignity treating an animal with dignity
or giving it evening and I'm saying is
know when you're cutting that dog off
from the kind of approval it seeks or it
would seek in the wild from its own kind
or even in hunting play and all these
things that is actually what's what's
cutting our first evening now what's
really interesting is then turn this
around and say well gee I so how does
your philosophy apply to human beings
right I think it actually does apply
pretty consistently because I think the
reality is when you take a human being
and put them in solitary confinement in
prison even if they're treated well even
if they're fed good food I think we
correctly see this as depriving human
being of their dignity now I'm not
saying we should never put people in
prison I'm not I'm pointing out that
even if you approve of you look at
someone's okay this person's a mass
murder their danger to society we're
going to take them and put them in
solitary confinement I think that people
are aware without being able to define
it or put their finger on it something
has happened here something that's more
significant
than just sitting in a room voluntarily
tonight for example I may sit in front
of the computer alone for many hours my
girlfriend's in the background you can
see I'm not completely alone but
nevertheless if I choose to sit alone in
my computer that is actually something
very different from me being cut off
from the Society of my own species and
being cut off permanently that this
there is something here being cut away
and maybe it's not as obvious as your
tail or your trunk or your tusks or your
claws like animals being declawed but
that there is something fundamental here
that that you know tokens that be tokens
that that Emmel notices what I'm what
I'm getting at by dignity I don't just
think there's dignity in life there's
dignity and death and dignity and dying
and I don't just think there's dignity
and success you know you can talk about
the dignity of the dignity of poverty
the dignity of failure of saying look I
started this business I ran it my way
and I ran it into the ground and now I'm
poor because my business isn't fair you
know what I mean like I think that
concept of dignity again unfortunately
these words normal the negative
connotation but I think dignity is in a
sense linked to competition in that same
sense that the wolf competes among
wolves
and the elephant competes among
elephants and human beings compete among
human beings often without knowing why
you know back when I was a poly scholar
you know I was a scholar of Buddhism but
his philosophy Buddhist history etc I
remember I had a really weird debate
with another guy he was also a you know
philosopher historian linguist working
on ancient Buddhism the same stuff he
described his engagement with Buddhism
as altruistic and I said no for me it's
not altruistic at all
I would even describe it as egoistic why
I'm involved and he was really shocked
by that and I had to explain it was
really the same philosophy I'm
explaining here and now where I said no
for me even just the fact that I want to
go to a conference and I really want to
present my views my research my
discoveries to the other people at the
and I want I want to disagree with them
even I don't just want them to applaud I
want to prove my case and I want I want
that interaction zone
that's not altruistic I think that's
egoistic in the strictest sense I think
when I go to that conference and I you
know even if it's literally Buddhist
philosophy it's like hey guys here's
what I did in the last five years
researching these ancient put his texts
and now I'm gonna prove my case and
you're welcome to disagree with me and
debate with me we are a wolf pack
you know tearing apart a corpse you know
and we are a herd of elephants competing
for who gets to mate or who gets to
drink water from the the brook or
competing without even knowing why I
think elephants fight with other
elephants just because of the instincts
that are in them and the feelings that
have Golda's fight with other wolves -
without maybe knowing why I'd like to
think I'm doing about something
meaningful if I'm doing it about
politics or philosophy or history or you
know I don't want to compete with other
people about just who has bigger muscles
or who has a fancier car but
nevertheless I've recognized that in
other people the guys who are spending
their time having big muscles in a fancy
car I think for them that is precisely
the pursuit of their dignity and not
because it's something innate in the
clothing or the car or the muscles but
because of this competitive relationship
with one's own species and in a world
where the wilderness has almost been
totally destroyed that may be one of the
last feeders for the natural instincts
to play themselves out that we have left
and on some level I think we appreciate
that even though the cars are
meaningless and maybe even the
conversations you may have are
meaningless that there's really
something interestingly profound were
deprived of when we're put into solitary
confinement and it doesn't take that
much of a leap of inference for people
to see that you're doing that and so
much worse than so much more when you do
that to a dog when you do that to a cat
and you cut off at the cat's testicles
and you cut off its claws
you deprive it of its own species and
yeah I don't think it's too much to say
in the same sense you're depriving me of
its dignity